So why is it really important that you
think in terms of a minimal viable product
rather than, let's build everything,
let's get really excited and go off in all
directions, well, doing a minimal viable
product will help define your scope.
It prevents you from the build
dragging on forever and
you never actually finishing it.
Side projects are the worst for
this, right?
Because there's no, especially if you
are used to working in a company with
a boss or
if you're used to working with clients,
the minute you sit down to
work on your own thing, right?
Where there's no boss
telling you what to do, and
there's no client with a deadline,
you tend to fiddle, right?
And you fiddle with it for ages and
you keep adding things to it and
it loses any kind of scope and it drags
on and you never finish it, right?
So it's the worst thing that can happen,
so by sitting down and
going right what's my MVP gonna be?
Let's define it up front before
I start doing anything and
then that is what I'm gonna build and
I'm not gonna get distracted from that.
Things will progress
a lot faster as a result.
So it defines your scope.
It also reduces your costs.
And your costs might be just your time,
but
let's not build a load of stuff
that we don't need to, initially.
Let's just keep it nice and focused.
And also having an MVP, and
knowing what your MVP is,
will allow you to launch faster and
with a better defined target audience.
And even the act of defining your MVP,
is gonna allow us to run
a test marketing campaign
before you build anything.
So it might be, that if it'll prove
whether your marketing is working or not.
And it will potentially
save you a lot of time and
a lot hassle,
if it turns out it's not working, and
you haven't built [LAUGH] the whole thing
only to discover it's not working, right?
So, steps in defining an MVP, or at least
the steps I use in defining an MVP.
First of all, I brainstorm as many
possible tasks and features and
things that my audience might want.
I then identify which of those things most
matters to the audience with top task
analysis, and
if you've watched my other courses,
you're sick of me talking about
top task analysis at this stage.
And then,
we're also gonna plan our launch features.
So, what is out of all of
those things we could do,
we're actually gonna launch with Mark.
>> Yeah, I just wanted to say,
a lot of times developers,
myself included, thought okay.
Building the product is
actually the thing, but no,
building the product is the starting line.
>> Yeah.
>> And my shaping it around
the customer's actual needs is the actual,
>> Yeah.
>> Journey.
>> Yeah, and what I'm trying to do here
is kind of maybe condense that a little
bit and go instead of going through
the pain of building the product and
then shaping it to the needs.
If we've taken the time to understand
the needs a little bit more earlier,
then it can be more shaped earlier on and
save yourself a little bit of hassle.
It's always gonna need to
be shaped post launch,
there's nothing you can do about that.
But the closer you can get it out of the
gate, the more time you ultimately save,
but you're entirely right.
It's very easy to get seduced into this
attitude of all I need to do is build it,
right?
And that is such a tiny part of having
a successful startup or business.
>> And the other thing is, if you give
a thousand people the exact same MVP,
they'll probably come up with a thousand
different products at the end of the day.
>> Yes.
>> So, making it real as possible.
>> Yeah.
>> Like as soon as possible.
>> Yeah
>> Becomes incredibly important.
>> And a lot of that is around
being extremely focused about who
you're aiming at, and
the shape of that thing you're creating.
And so one of the things I'm gonna talk
about is, everything in you will cry,
let's start coding something,
you're better off doing a little bit
prototyping first, because that helps
give the shape to it that you need.
So, I start with brainstorming
possible tasks and
I just go for it,
everything that I could possibly think.
Only for the initial target audience,
I don't go off and
start thinking what other
audiences would like.
But in that existing target
audience that we're aiming for,
just as many things as I can think of.
And I look at the competition,
what's there,
what tasks the competitors support,
all those get listed out.
What they've got coming up soon that
I think is relevant to my audience,
that all goes on the list as well.
What they've missed that I
think my audience really wants,
that goes on the list as well.
Also lemme refer back to that
user research that I've created,
what have users requested that they want?
What pain, what tasks could address
a pain point that the user want?
What tasks could help a user
complete the goals that they want?
And just keep putting them many out, get
them out of your head as many as you can.
And then, don't stop there.
And then move across into AI,
the large language model.
And write something like,
I'm trying to build a SAS app for
that enables them to goal.
So far I've identified the following tasks
users will need to complete and I copy and
paste my list in there.
And then I say,
what other tasks should I be adding to
this application to help people, right?
And then it all suggests a load more and
some of them you'll go, no,
that's rubbish, that's silly.
But there'll be some
nuggets in there as well.
So you add those in there, right?
Get as many in there as you can.
The truth is that about 20% of any
features that you create in your app,
will be the 20% that something like
80% of your users are actually
primarily interested in.
In other words, you'll have a lot of
secondary tasks that people can do that
aren't the main tasks, right?
So, if we take our task list
app that I keep mentioning,
the primary thing you wanna do is add
tasks, be able to review your tasks,
and maybe organize those
tasks into projects, right?
But then there's secondary things
like reoccurring tasks, or
projects within projects,
or having due dates and start dates
on tasks and reoccurring tasks.
There's all kinds of secondary stuff, so
you wanna know what
the core ones are first.
And I'm not saying the secondary
ones aren't important, but
you need to know what
those top tasks are first.
And there is a methodology for doing this,
that I am beginning to come across on
front end masters, like the ultimate
fanboy for, and it just happens that,
it's been relevant a lot recently.